# Assignment 6 - Milestones

### Requirements Formalization
We need to understand the biological processes we’re simulating, and determine which parameters governing them should be user inputs. We need to determine basic requirements, such as the programming language we need to use (so neurobiology researchers can maintain this), what operating systems it needs to be run on, and how users want to interact with it. We need to meet with our customers frequently to make sure we’re on the right track.

1. Research and Learn Biological Process
2. Discuss with Customer
3. Refine Knowledge as Needed

### GUI Framework
We need to research tools for developing cross platform GUIs. Our GUI should allow users to conveniently set biological parameters and display the simulation.

1. Research Tools (QT, WX, etc...)
2. Design GUI
3. Build GUI

### Build Base Epithelium Example
This stage is primarily used to test the GUI we've built. We need to design data structures to represent cells and an epithelium (a sheet of cells), and find a process that generates a biologically realistic and random epithelium. Cells divide and collide with each other, so we need to handle cell collisions. We’ve chosen to treat cells as a spring system, so cells that are very close push each other apart, and cells that are farther apart pull each other together.

1. Create Cell Class
2. Create Epithelium Class
3. Particle Cell Collision
4. Visual Check

### Epithelium Development
The rules which we apply to the epithelium and the cells which it contains will need refinement and expansion to better represent the biological processes of the eye development. This will require a meeting with the customer to learn what new rules are desired, as well as to discuss in depth if the project is heading in the right direction.

1. Visual Check
2. Biological Meaning
3. Conversation with Customer
4. Define and Implement Cell Properties

### Furrow Implementation
This milestone requires the creation of a high fidelity simulation of a furrow. The furrow must be biologically accurate and easy for researchers to modify and maintain. The furrow will be the driving force of the simulation and the primary point of user interaction.

1. Talk with Customer
2. Implementation of Supporting Data Structures
3. Visual Check of Furrow

### Ommatidium Formation
The ommatidium is the most important object created by the furrow. The rules defining ommatidium growth and development must be formalized and implemented in order to have a biologically accurate simulation. The displayed ommatidium will ultimately.

1. Conversation with Customer
2. Properties of Ommatidium

### Presentation and Rules Check
This milestone marks the end of our minimum requirements. We will set up a formal presentation and teach Dr. Buschbeck and her collegues to use the product. We would also present all current features of the simulation and explore any other considerations regarding both correctness and usability.

1. Formally Present a Completed MVP
2. Check Rules of Objects in Simulation
3. Refine Rules as Needed

### Implement Additional Goals Past MVP
This milestone follows after the presentation and marks the first stage of additional goals outside of the minimum requirements we've set. These tasks would allow us to improve the quality of the product by providing a number of additional features. These features would provide additional information from each simulation run to the user as well as providing capability to share information among collegues.

1. Saving configuarations
2. Import/Export options
3. Automated Documentations
4. Restful Interface Implementation


