
# Ryan Lavin Capstone Essay

This is a project to use software to contribute to an active area in neurobiology research. The aim is to create a biologically accurate yet high performing simulation of the eye.  Simulating eye development will provide opportunities to both improve our understanding of the relationships between various species’ eyes and to utilize the classroom concepts of high performance computing and requirements engineering. Requirements engineering will be needed to ensure the precision of the model. Software engineering and parallel computing will be necessary for the simulation to be quick and responsive.

My CO-OP experiences of working with clients from diverse backgrounds will be extremely beneficial to this project. In my CO-OPs I have been a part of every stage of software development. I have planned long term projects, designed software to fill customer needs, and worked as both a frontend and backend developer. This experience gives me a good perspective on the lifecycles of software like that of my team’s project and provides a frame of reference that I can use to plan the development of our software. The development skills I picked up will also be quite useful as I will be able to comfortably take on any task that requires man hours. I feel that my CO-OPs have superbly prepared me for this project.

The skills I have picked up in the classroom will also be invaluable when working on this simulation. Communicating with team members and clients from different fields is always difficult. My coursework in software engineering and requirements engineering has prepared me for this. With my knowledge from these classes I am confident that I will be able to gain a solid understanding of my environment and the software system that I intend to build. The parallel computing experience I have gained from my various courses will also be quite useful. One of our goals is to simulate large numbers of cells in real time. Parallel computing will be a necessity when calculating the interactions of thousands of cells.

I don’t intend to jump into optimizing the project right away. My initial approach to the project will be to provide successive approximations of the final product. This way the neurobiology lab can quickly intervene should the team fall off track. I expect that my team and I will be able to produce a fully functioning 2D simulation of the development of a fruit fly eye. I hope that we can produce a 3D simulation of the eye, and that we are able to make enough parameters mutable to allow for the simulation of many more species’ eyes. I will consider the project successful if we are able to produce a model of eye development that is faithful enough to reality to be used in neurobiology research.

I asked to assist the neurobiology lab with this project because I want to do something that has a benefit beyond convenience. I want to apply my skillset in a way that can positively impact everyone and write software that has meaning. I also sought out this project for the challenge. I expect this to be difficult. I hope that difficulty pushes me and my team to grow as developers. The combined challenge and value of the project excite me, and I look forward to seeing what my team and I can do.
